HURRICANE Andrew, claimed to be the costliest natural disaster in US history, yesterday smashed its way through the state of Louisiana, inflicting severe damage on rural communities but narrowly missing the low-lying city of New Orleans.
0.87 (HURRICANE Andrew; to be; the costliest natural disaster in US history)

The storm, which brought havoc to southern Florida on Monday and then headed north-west across the Gulf of Mexico, had made landfall late on Tuesday night some 60 miles south-west of the city in the agricultural Cajun country.
0.99 (The storm, which brought havoc to southern Florida on Monday and then headed north-west across the Gulf of Mexico,; had made; landfall)
0.88 Context(The storm , which brought havoc to southern Florida on Monday and then headed north - west across the Gulf of Mexico , had made,List([0, 123))):(The storm; brought; havoc; to southern Florida; T:on Monday)
0.93 Context(The storm , which brought havoc to southern Florida on Monday and then headed north - west across the Gulf of Mexico , had made,List([0, 123))):(The storm; headed; north-west across the Gulf of Mexico; T:then)

Although the damage from the hurricane's landfall in Florida on Monday was much greater than initially esti mated, insurers' losses there are likely to total less than Dollars 1bn, well below earlier expectations, a senior member of Lloyd's insurance market said yesterday.
0.93 (the damage from the hurricane's landfall in Florida on Monday; was; much greater than initially esti mated)
0.39 (esti; mated; T:initially)
0.62 (insurers' losses; to total 1bn; )
0.98 (Although the damage from the hurricane's landfall in Florida on Monday was much greater than initially esti mated, insurers' losses there are likely to total less than Dollars 1bn, well below earlier expectations; said; T:yesterday)
0.66 Context(Although the damage from the hurricane 's landfall in Florida on Monday was much greater than initially esti mated , insurers ' losses there are likely to total less than Dollars 1bn , well below earlier expectations said,List([0, 262))):(insurers' losses; are likely; )

In Louisiana, the hurricane landed with wind speeds of about 120 miles per hour and caused severe damage in small coastal centres such as Morgan City, Franklin and New Iberia.
0.94 (the hurricane; landed; L:In Louisiana)
0.96 (the hurricane; caused; severe damage in small coastal centres such as Morgan City, Franklin and New Iberia; L:In Louisiana)

Associated tornadoes devastated Laplace, 20 miles west of New Orleans.
0.92 (Associated tornadoes; devastated west; Laplace)

Then, however, Andrew lost force as it moved north over land.
0.94 (Andrew; lost; force; T:as it moved north over land; T:Then)
0.45 (it; moved; north; over land)

By yesterday afternoon, it had been down-graded to tropical storm, in that its sustained windspeeds were below 75 mph.
0.60 (it; had been; down-graded to tropical storm; T:By yesterday afternoon)
0.66 (its sustained windspeeds; were; below 75 mph)

Initial reports said at least one person had died, 75 been injured and thousands made homeless along the Louisiana coast, after 14 confirmed deaths in Florida and three in the Bahamas.
0.95 (thousands made homeless along the Louisiana coast; confirmed; deaths in Florida and three in the Bahamas)
0.94 (Initial reports; said; at least one person had died, 75 been injured and thousands made homeless along the Louisiana coast, after 14 confirmed deaths in Florida and three in the Bahamas)
0.94 Context(Initial reports said,List([0, 20))):(at least one person; had died; T:thousands made homeless along the Louisiana coast, after 14 confirmed deaths in Florida and three in the Bahamas)
0.22 Context(Initial reports said,List([0, 20))):(75; been injured; )

The storm caused little damage to Louisiana's important oil-refining industry, although some plants had to halt production when electricity was cut.
0.95 (The storm; caused; little damage to Louisiana's important oil-refining industry)
0.89 (some plants; to halt; production; T:when electricity was cut)
0.71 (electricity; was cut; )

The Lloyd's member, in close contact with leading insurers in Florida, said that damage to insured property was remarkably small.
0.89 (The Lloyd's member; said; that damage to insured property was remarkably small; L:in close contact with leading insurers in Florida)
0.80 Context(The Lloyd 's member said,List([0, 75))):(damage to insured property; was; remarkably small)

More than Dollars 15bn of damage may have been caused in all, but was mostly to uninsured property, he said.
0.97 (More than Dollars 15bn of damage may have been caused in all, but was mostly to uninsured property; said; he)

In north Miami, damage is minimal.
0.96 (damage; is; minimal; L:In north Miami)

Worst affected is one hotel, whose basement was flooded.
0.64 (Worst affected; is; one hotel, whose basement was flooded)
0.70 (one hotel; was flooded; )

Most of the destruction occurred in a 10-mile band across Homestead, 25 miles to the south of Miami, where a typical house sells for Dollars 100,000 to Dollars 150,000.
0.96 (Most of the destruction; occurred; L:in a 10-mile band across Homestead, 25 miles to the south of Miami)
0.93 (a typical house; sells; for Dollars)

US insurers will face a bill in respect of such properties, but Lloyd's exposure there is minimal.
0.93 (US insurers; will face; a bill; L:in respect of such properties)
0.88 (Lloyd's exposure there; is; minimal)

Many destroyed power lines are thought to be uninsured, as are trees and shrubs uprooted across a wide area.
0.77 (Many destroyed power lines; are thought; )
0.77 (Many destroyed power lines; to be; uninsured)
0.91 (trees and shrubs; uprooted; L:across a wide area)

Only one big hotel in that area has been badly damaged, a Holiday Inn.
0.82 (Only one big hotel in that area; has been badly damaged; )

Across Florida, some 2m people remained without electric ity yesterday and health officials were warning the public to boil or chemically treat all water.
0.96 (some 2m people; remained; without electric ity; T:yesterday; L:Across Florida)
0.73 (the public; to boil; )
0.86 (the public; to chemically treat; all water)

Hurricane Hugo, which devastated much of South Carolina in 1989, cost the insurance industry some Dollars 4.2bn.
0.93 (Hurricane Hugo; devastated; much of South Carolina; T:in 1989)
0.93 (Hurricane Hugo; cost; the insurance industry; some Dollars 4.2bn)

Further uninsured losses may have raised the total to Dollars 6bn-Dollars 10bn.
0.91 (Further uninsured losses; may have raised; the total; to Dollars; T:6bn-Dollars 10bn)

